# SICB-2025
All data prep, analyses, and statistics for the annual SICB meeting in January 2026. 

Project title: Environmental effects on corticosterone in nestling tree swallows (Tachycineta bicolor) 

Abstract: For an individual, the ability to cope with challenges is fundamental to surviving in a changing environment. The corticosterone stress response has a major impact on the ability of an organism to react to the challenges of rapid environmental change. Previous research has shown that when faced with a prolonged cold snap, adult female tree swallows increase their baseline and stress-induced corticosterone levels, and that individual variation in corticosterone levels predicts reproductive success during challenges. Tree swallows are advancing reproduction with warming springs and are more likely to encounter cold snaps during breeding, which can reduce reproductive success. Here, using data from a long-term study of free-living tree swallows collected from 2013-2025, we show that nestling tree swallows show an immediate increase in corticosterone levels when ambient temperatures fall below a threshold of 18.5°C, which has previously been identified as the threshold at which insect availability begins to decline. As a result of earlier reproduction, nestlings are more likely to experience cold snaps during development, making it especially important to understand their effects. Ongoing work is also testing whether male and female nestlings display dimorphism in their corticosterone responses to further our understanding of how nestlings are responding to thermal environmental shifts.
